Award winning celebrities are they work the price?

How’s that for a click-bait title? For this project we were tasked with collecting data related to movie box office success and creating a model to predict outcomes. Something that I had noticed was that in trailers it is often advertised that award-winning actors are starring. This suggests to me that production companies perceive that the general public wants to go see movies starring award-winning actors. They are spending money on advertisement time to make sure audiences know that actors in their movies have won awards. This begs the question—does having award-winning actors in your movie actually lead to successes? An additional fact that plays into my investigation is that once actors win awards nominations their salaries per film increase by a reported 81% according to this Forbes article (http://www.forbes.com/sites/hayleycuccinello/2016/02/29/do-oscar-wins-boost-actors-and-actresses-earning-potential/#66bbd03116ae). So not only are production companies advertising the award winners they are having to pay more to hire them. This sets up an interesting question that I modeled—does having an award-winning actor in your movie predict Total Domestic Gross of the movie in question? I attempted to answer this question by collecting data from 12,000 movies. In addition I created a list of actors and actresses, the Oscars and Golden Globes they were nominated for and/or won and which year. I used both a linear regression, and a random forest repressor to see if I could predict the success of the movies based on how many and which awards the actors had won before starring in a given film. I did this by matching an actor and all of the awards they had won by year to the movies they starred in and when that movie was released. I then took the year the movie was released and subtracted that they years that the actors had won their respective awards. If the result was negative (the actor won the award after a movie was released) I through out that award. I chose to edit the data this way because I am considering this problem from the perspective of the production company. If they are indeed hiring actors for their award history, actors who won awards after a movie was released would not have an impact on the initial hire. After this adjustment I ended up finding little correlation (R2 < 0.066) between any combination of awards and nominations for different Oscar and Golden Globe categories. 
	Ostensibly, this suggests that award winning actors have little bearing on the success of a movie, and maybe should not be so sought after as they are very expensive. Of course this is a result given the many assumptions and caveats that come from the data I was drawing from.
	Another enlightening week in data science bootcamp... Learning how to webscrape was a big hurdle, but a very powerful tool. Excite for what the future holds…Nick
